watch your new 50 as hard as you can
hi I'm Luke Bryan for Joe Blow calm and
welcome to movie endings explain where
we'll be taking a look at some of the
more ambiguous and discussed movie
endings that have left audiences
debating their true meaning long after
the credits have rolled this time we're
going to look at the oscar-winning 2007
thriller from the Coen brothers No
Country for Old Men a tightly wrought
tension-filled tale of a simple welder
who finds two million dollars in the
desert after a drug deal gone bad and
ends up on the run from a hitman hired
to recover the money Josh Brolin plays
Llewellyn lost the man who finds the
money and tries to make off with it to
deadly consequences and Javier Bardem in
an oscar-winning performance plays Anton
sugar the hitman in question in a lot of
ways the entire movie is a cat-and-mouse
chase between the two and we see Anton's
passive calm yet lethal destruction as
he attempts to hunt down Maus however
there is a third main character played
by Tommy Lee Jones sheriff Bell who is
also trying to track down the money but
at the same time find a hitman who is
killing everyone in his way to get to
the money Bell doesn't enter into the
film until after the first 25 minutes
but he quickly becomes a central figure
in the movie as we enter cut between all
three men during the story interestingly
enough none of the three main characters
share any screen time whatsoever despite
how closely connected they all are they
may occupy the same space in scenes but
you never see them on screen at the same
time No Country for Old Men was adapted
from the Cormac McCarthy book of the
same name and while there are
differences between the book in the
movie including a little more meat to
the sheriff's character towards the end
there's not that much that really sheds
more insight into the conclusion of the
movie so to get into the ending that is
confused some people or merely just
provided certain movie watches with an
unsatisfying conclusion we need to get
into spoiler territory Llewellyn Moss
ends up getting unceremoniously killed
off-screen towards the end of the film
and sheriff Bell gets to the scene too
late it comes out of nowhere and leaves
little to be desired after such an
involved and personal feud between Maas
and Anton that was surely going to be
paid off in a face-to-face confrontation
that's the best deal you're gonna get I
won't tell you you can save yourself
because you can't yeah I'm gonna bring
you some hora decided to make you
special project mind you and go ahead
come look for me at all then we almost
get a showdown when bell is outside the
motel room where mas was killed where
the money was surely hidden and Anton is
inside waiting for Bell to enter early
on in the film Bell investigates the
trailer of Llewellyn Moss and lets his
young deputy Wendel go in first perhaps
this is a sign of Belle's realization
that he's no longer fit enough to lead
the charge in a time where he is finding
himself increasingly out of his depth
this time however he's alone and given
the fact that most of his relatives were
law man who died in a blaze of glory too
young it appears that he almost wants to
accept his own fate he knows how
dangerous Anton is and has no backup
however once he enters Anton has
disappeared and his life is spared it
was almost as if Belle was suicidal in
this moment knowing that he probably had
no chance to take on this psychopathic
killer but he did it anyway that's an
interesting character choice following
this scene we see mosses late wise Carla
Jean played by Kelly Macdonald
confronted with Anton in her home he
explains that Maas had the chance to
save her life by giving up his but chose
to save his own skin it's left fairly
ambiguous as to whether or not Anton
murdered collagen but if you notice him
checking his feet it calls back to
earlier in the film when he removed his
socks after a series of murders in the
motel
and given our little reason he needed to
slaughter other characters earlier in
the film I mean literally side
characters on the side of the road it
stands to reason that he did in fact
kill Carla Jean this is the best I can
do
god no I'm gonna call it the coin mount
had no say it's just ease her
questioning of whether or not killing
her had anything to do with the chance
of a coin toss or a decision he had
already made in his mind continues to
raise the theme of fate and circumstance
the colors the entire movie and in what
would have ordinarily been a cruel twist
of fate we see an tonka in the car wreck
we can see that the traffic light above
the road actually red green so Anton
proceeded to drive but nothing is
certain and the chance nature of light
caught up with him eventually still he
managed to survive like a cockroach and
shuffles out of the film the final scene
sees sheriff Bell Restless in his
retirement telling his wife about a
dream he had concerning his father in
this moment we see that the semi twist
the film is that this is Belle's story
in fact the opening of the film is
narrated by Bell which bookends the film
nicely and he tells a story of a time
when you didn't even need to carry a gun
as a sheriff a role that both his father
and grandfather had held and he laments
the increasing violence of the time
period of the film is set in 1980 it's a
movie where the sheriff never cracked
the case and is only left with the
murdered body of the man he was trying
to protect ultimately the film is a
tragedy with no hope in sight the good
guys die the bad guy lives and the only
character we have any interested in
who's still left standing leaves us at
the end of the movie by ruminating on
his own mortality had free own dreams
why you got time for him now anything
interesting again - um both had my
father and I miss peculiar I'm older now
and he ever was by 20 years
so in fifties the younger man anyway
first thing I don't remember too well
but is about meeting him in town
somewhat
you give me some money and the loss to
the second one it was like we was both
back in the older times and I was a
horse back going picking mountains for
the night going to this pass in the
mountains his cold snow on the ground he
rode past me and kept on going never
said nothing but I just well he had his
blanket wrapped around his head we go
fast I think he was caring for her in
Hoorn the way people used to bhisma I
could see the horn from the light inside
of it about two colours a month there's
a game I knew that he was going on ahead
he sits in the back a fire somewhere out
turn on the dark
don't let go I knew this whenever I got
there he'd either
now woke up
the fact that Belle is older than his
father ever was by 20 years seems to
play heavily on his mind in his dreams
along with money that he might have lost
in another dream they tell us that he
feels that he's out of place and that he
lives in a country that isn't for old
men like him as the title of the film
suggests the lost money dream could
point towards his lingering guilt of not
being able to wrap up his last case with
the two million dollars he is also
confronted with his existential crisis
by his uncle who tells him this what you
got thing that's new as countries heard
on people
caged up which come ain't no wait no
knew that's Randy so the ending of No
Country for Old Men is a quiet and
simple one in a movie that's filled with
violence and calls and a fact and states
and consequence it simply shows an old
man looking back on a dream he had and
wondering what it all meant when really
he's looking back on his whole life and
pondering its meaning which is something
we all end up doing eventually yet maybe
in a film that is so downbeat Belle's
yearning for meeting his father again
with a fire waiting for them both to sit
around is a sliver of hope for the
goodness in life to reveal itself to him
and that maybe not quite all hope is
lost what your thoughts on the ending of
No Country for Old Men do you think it's
as clear-cut as I made out or maybe
there's more to former sheriff Belle's
dream than meets the eye
be sure to chime in with your comments
down below and thanks for watching
[Music]
you